Let's move on to performance
best practices, the first and
the most obvious one, and
the one overlooked the most is that we can
actually improve the performance of
querying by simplifying the selector.
So, each time you use
the complex selector,
the CSS compiler needs to transpire this,
and it takes more time, so
you pay extra tax on using
the complex selector.
So, you may notice that
it's not significant, so
you may pay like five milliseconds on
the query to compile this lecture,
but all these things are accumulating.
So, if you do hundreds of queries,
so it will result,
maybe to 50 milliseconds,
on average in the delay.
But if we combine all possible
optimizations with this one,
the results can be quite significant.
Although the IDs is not the best practice,
you still can utilize IDs for
the core container when,
for instance, you need to query
the element from the very large tree.
So, if we have some DOM tree that has
10,000 elements, if you query from HTML,
then you need to go through 10,000
elements on the first query.
But if you, for instance, could select
this section with an ID, and then you
know that this operation should be
repeated multiple times, then you can just
provide an end query from this section,
and it will be just one operation.
So, next section is adding and removing
elements, and before we jump to that,
any questions so far?
>> Speaker 1: So, you talked about
understanding the differences between
these methods being useful if you were
gonna build something more low level.
If you are working on something that is
using a framework like React or Angular,
are there recommendations you would
make for improving performance or
knowing what their methods
are using under the hood?
Or do you just trust that the library
authors have spent a lot of time thinking
about it [LAUGH]?
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah, when you utilize
any library that manages the DOM for you,
you just rely on this library.
The only way you can possibly
think you may use the DOM API
within some effect in the React
when you need to query things,
this is the place where you
could optimize potentially.
But trying to optimize a React
is not a good idea because it's
quite complex inside.
>> Speaker 2: Is the cost of
CSS only during compile time?
Wouldn't the runtime of complex
selectors also be about performance?
>> Evgenii Ray: No actually,
first you compile your styles in CSS,
this compiled when you initiate the page.
But when you execute the JavaScript
with some query selector,
this is dynamic selector, this means
that should be compiled in runtime.
So, you pay the cost every
time you execute that, okay?
So, let's now understand how we can add or
remove elements,
and when it comes to adding or
removing, every method is bad.
[LAUGH] So basically,
we don't have a good, so
the performance impact
is always significant.
So, there is no good method to insert
the data because every time we modify,
the DOM, it triggers the reflow.
So, in our application,
we want to minimize the reflow operation,
but there are a few methods that
particularly impact the performance.
The first one is innerHTML, so
when you use the innerHTML,
you basically set the HTML of the element.
The browser needs to involve the HTML
parser to compile your HTML again,
to do the full reflow,
validate your HTML, and so on.
So, you pay the cost of the parsing,
same applies to insert a JSON HTML.
Because we use the row HTML,
the browser still needs to parse that.
But if you need to modify the DOM,
make sure that you don't utilize
the inner HTML too often.
It's okay to use this once
per initialization, but
if you expected to insert
elements dynamically,
then it's better to utilize
the insert adjacent element or
a penchant because it takes
the compiled HTML object already and
just renders this on a DOM.
And we can see how it works,
so the method is pretty
flexible because it accepts the position
where we can insert the element.
The first one is before begin,
which basically insert the element
before the target element.
So, we can try to insert that,
and the element is inserted,
so the after begin will give
you the first child position.
>> Evgenii Ray: While the before end
will render element as a last child, and
after end will give you the position
right after target element.
This method is pretty flexible and
can be used almost anywhere,
then how do we remove elements.
So, removing elements can be
done through the remove method,
basically we need to have
a reference to the object,
and we can also reset the whole
HTML by setting the EMP string.